LOCALDEV.md, before:

# GSA Quickstart

1. **Ensure Python 3.11 is installed**:

   - You can check your Python3.11.x version by running:

   ```bash
   python3.11 --version
   ```

   - If Python 3.11 is not installed, you will need to install it first.

   ```bash
   brew install python@3.11
   ```

2. **Create the virtual environment (or however you prefer)**:

   - Run:

   ```bash
   python3.11 -m venv venv
   source ./venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. **Install and use node 20.15.1**:

   - If you don't have nvm, you can install with `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.3/install.sh | bash` and `source ~/.zshrc` (or `source ~/.bashrc` if you use bash):

   ```bash
   nvm install 20.18.1
   nvm use 20.18.1
   ```

4. **Install gitleaks**:

   - Install with homebrew, then start a new terminal:

   ```bash
   brew install gitleaks
   ```

5. **Install deps, build and run**:

   - Make sure you've got the .env file set up, then install, build and run with hot reloading:

   ```bash
   rm ./backend/data/webui.db || true && \
   pip install -r ./backend/requirements.txt && \
   rm -rf node_modules || true && \
   npm install --verbose && \
   npx husky init && \
   cp pre-commit .husky/pre-commit && \
   npm run build && \
   ./backend/start.sh
   ```

   - The first user to sign up to a new installation should get the admin role. You can also predefine user roles in the .env file. Github auth checks that email domain is in ['gsa.gov'], but you can easily modify it at `backend/apps/webui/routers/auths.py:233`. Eventually we'll need to make github for local dev only for compliance reasons.
   - After the first install, you can just run `./backend/start.sh`. First app startup will take a minute even after it says `Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0:8080`, once you see the ascii art, all of the features should be available. You may see a 500 the first time and need to refresh. You can run a front end dev server that hot reloads via `npm run dev` but connecting it to the backend and getting auth redirects with live servers working is unresolved due to the frontend and back running on different ports. We probably need to mock auth locally.
   - ollama is not required for the app to run, but it is assumed, you can ignore the 500s if its not running. If you want to use it, you can install it with `brew install ollama`. You can then run `ollama serve` to start the server. You can then add a model to ollama with `ollama run mistral`.

6. **Set up pipelines to access models via API**:

- Once you're in, you should see the four default models available in the chat. If not, check that the pipelines server is running on 9099 and in the UI click on your user in the lower left > Admin Panel > Settings > Connections > OpenAI API section. Set the API URL to [<http://localhost:9099](http://localhost:9099>) and the API key to 0p3n-w3bu! and hit refresh to see if it connects to the pipeline server.
- After completing these steps, the models specified in the pipeline settings should be available in the drop down at the upper left when you create a new conversation.

7. **Setup postgres with pgvector for local RAG testing**:

- Remember to turn off any existing postgres services.
- Ensure docker engine is available and run a postgres 15 container with pgvector already installed:

`docker run --name pgvector_postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres -e POSTGRES_DB=postgres -p 5432:5432 pgvector/pgvector:pg15`

- To mimic the production env, ensure that `DATABASE_URL` provides a connection string to the container above.

8. **To push to cloud.gov from local**

```bash
cf push --strategy rolling --vars-file deploy-config/dev.yml --var OLLAMA_BASE_URL="$OLLAMA_BASE_URL" --var WEBUI_NAME="$WEBUI_NAME" --var SCARF_NO_ANALYTICS="$SCARF_NO_ANALYTICS" --var DO_NOT_TRACK="$DO_NOT_TRACK" --var ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY="$ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY" --var GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_ID="$GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_ID" --var GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_SECRET="$GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_SECRET" --var AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="$AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID" --var AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY" --var AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION" --var AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY="$AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY" --var AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT="$AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT" --var AZURE_OPENAI_GPT35TURBO_DEPLOYMENT_NAME="$AZURE_OPENAI_GPT35TURBO_DEPLOYMENT_NAME" --var AZURE_OPENAI_GPT4OMNI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME="$AZURE_OPENAI_GPT4OMNI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME" --var WEBUI_SECRET_KEY="$WEBUI_SECRET_KEY" --var DEV_ADMIN_EMAILS="$DEV_ADMIN_EMAILS" --var DEV_USER_EMAILS="$DEV_USER_EMAILS" --var RAG_OPENAI_API_BASE_URL="$RAG_OPENAI_API_BASE_URL" --var RAG_OPENAI_API_KEY="$RAG_OPENAI_API_KEY" --var RAG_EMBEDDING_ENGINE="$RAG_EMBEDDING_ENGINE" --var DEPLOY_ROUTE="$DEPLOY_ROUTE" --var DEPLOY_ENV="$DEPLOY_ENV"
```

## Common Problems

### npm install fails with "Error: unable to get local issuer certificate"

If using Zscaler you need to feed npm the Zscaler CA certificate as an additional
trusted CA as described in https://help.zscaler.com/unified/adding-custom-certificate-application-specific-trust-store#npm

Commit message:

Fixup the AzureAI deployment name and model version
* Uses the correct value for deployment name.
* The broker is currently serving the wrong model version - This has a stop
  gap in place that throws a warning while the broker is still wrong.
* Also drops use of the Node buildpack and notes the need to npm run build
  before a push.

LOCALDEV.md, after:

# GSA Quickstart

1. **Ensure Python 3.11 is installed**:

   - You can check your Python3.11.x version by running:

   ```bash
   python3.11 --version
   ```

   - If Python 3.11 is not installed, you will need to install it first.

   ```bash
   brew install python@3.11
   ```

2. **Create the virtual environment (or however you prefer)**:

   - Run:

   ```bash
   python3.11 -m venv venv
   source ./venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. **Install and use node 20.15.1**:

   - If you don't have nvm, you can install with `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.3/install.sh | bash` and `source ~/.zshrc` (or `source ~/.bashrc` if you use bash):

   ```bash
   nvm install 20.18.1
   nvm use 20.18.1
   ```

4. **Install gitleaks**:

   - Install with homebrew, then start a new terminal:

   ```bash
   brew install gitleaks
   ```

5. **Install deps, build and run**:

   - Make sure you've got the .env file set up, then install, build and run with hot reloading:

   ```bash
   rm ./backend/data/webui.db || true && \
   pip install -r ./backend/requirements.txt && \
   rm -rf node_modules || true && \
   npm install --verbose && \
   npx husky init && \
   cp pre-commit .husky/pre-commit && \
   npm run build && \
   ./backend/start.sh
   ```

   - The first user to sign up to a new installation should get the admin role. You can also predefine user roles in the .env file. Github auth checks that email domain is in ['gsa.gov'], but you can easily modify it at `backend/apps/webui/routers/auths.py:233`. Eventually we'll need to make github for local dev only for compliance reasons.
   - After the first install, you can just run `./backend/start.sh`. First app startup will take a minute even after it says `Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0:8080`, once you see the ascii art, all of the features should be available. You may see a 500 the first time and need to refresh. You can run a front end dev server that hot reloads via `npm run dev` but connecting it to the backend and getting auth redirects with live servers working is unresolved due to the frontend and back running on different ports. We probably need to mock auth locally.
   - ollama is not required for the app to run, but it is assumed, you can ignore the 500s if its not running. If you want to use it, you can install it with `brew install ollama`. You can then run `ollama serve` to start the server. You can then add a model to ollama with `ollama run mistral`.

6. **Set up pipelines to access models via API**:

- Once you're in, you should see the four default models available in the chat. If not, check that the pipelines server is running on 9099 and in the UI click on your user in the lower left > Admin Panel > Settings > Connections > OpenAI API section. Set the API URL to [<http://localhost:9099](http://localhost:9099>) and the API key to 0p3n-w3bu! and hit refresh to see if it connects to the pipeline server.
- After completing these steps, the models specified in the pipeline settings should be available in the drop down at the upper left when you create a new conversation.

7. **Setup postgres with pgvector for local RAG testing**:

- Remember to turn off any existing postgres services.
- Ensure docker engine is available and run a postgres 15 container with pgvector already installed:

`docker run --name pgvector_postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres -e POSTGRES_DB=postgres -p 5432:5432 pgvector/pgvector:pg15`

- To mimic the production env, ensure that `DATABASE_URL` provides a connection string to the container above.

8. **To push to cloud.gov from local**
(Assumes you have run `npm run build` already - This uses the `/build` contents!)

```bash
cf push --strategy rolling --vars-file deploy-config/dev.yml --var OLLAMA_BASE_URL="$OLLAMA_BASE_URL" --var WEBUI_NAME="$WEBUI_NAME" --var SCARF_NO_ANALYTICS="$SCARF_NO_ANALYTICS" --var DO_NOT_TRACK="$DO_NOT_TRACK" --var ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY="$ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY" --var GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_ID="$GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_ID" --var GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_SECRET="$GITHUBLOCAL_CLIENT_SECRET" --var AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="$AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID" --var AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY" --var AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION" --var AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY="$AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY" --var AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT="$AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT" --var AZURE_OPENAI_GPT35TURBO_DEPLOYMENT_NAME="$AZURE_OPENAI_GPT35TURBO_DEPLOYMENT_NAME" --var AZURE_OPENAI_GPT4OMNI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME="$AZURE_OPENAI_GPT4OMNI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME" --var WEBUI_SECRET_KEY="$WEBUI_SECRET_KEY" --var DEV_ADMIN_EMAILS="$DEV_ADMIN_EMAILS" --var DEV_USER_EMAILS="$DEV_USER_EMAILS" --var RAG_OPENAI_API_BASE_URL="$RAG_OPENAI_API_BASE_URL" --var RAG_OPENAI_API_KEY="$RAG_OPENAI_API_KEY" --var RAG_EMBEDDING_ENGINE="$RAG_EMBEDDING_ENGINE" --var DEPLOY_ROUTE="$DEPLOY_ROUTE" --var DEPLOY_ENV="$DEPLOY_ENV"
```

## Common Problems

### npm install fails with "Error: unable to get local issuer certificate"

If using Zscaler you need to feed npm the Zscaler CA certificate as an additional
trusted CA as described in https://help.zscaler.com/unified/adding-custom-certificate-application-specific-trust-store#npm
